Coming up next is the Science Fiction Radio Show, so stay with us.
This is the Science Fiction Radio Show, a commentary on science fiction and fantasy.
And here are your hosts.
This is Daryl Lane.
And Bill Vernon.
You'll sometimes find that collectors of science fiction and fantasy books are into
comics also.
In fact, collecting comics is becoming a more widespread hobby all the time, and often
you'll find collectible comics at a specialty store that handles science fiction, fantasy,
and gaming material.
Bob Wayne owns such a store in Fort Worth, Texas, called Fantastic World's Bookstore,
and he also collects comics.
When he asked him how an interested newcomer might get into comic book collecting, he had
some words of caution.
Well, the first recommendation I make to people is they come in and say, I read that
a so-and-so comic book has gone up a thousand percent in two years.
What comic book would you recommend that I should start collecting?
I tell people that they really shouldn't be buying comics unless they enjoy reading comics.
If there's nothing in that comic that they enjoy reading, then they're making a mistake
getting into comics because there are other things they could invest money in that the
people will not laugh at you when you go to the bank and tell them that you want to use
it for collateral.
So if a comic book has an investment, it's the kind of thing that's really been overplayed
in the media to some extent.
I mean, it sounds real good for the few comics that have appreciated a great deal in value,
but speaking from experience, a bank does not really think that that's the kind of collateral
they want to hold for a loan.
So stocks and bonds still sound preferable to me as investments.
But what if someone did take up comic book collecting?
What about storing and preserving them?
If you're going to keep a kind book for a collection, it's important to handle it carefully,
and if you're going to keep it, you should bag it up, at least in a plastic bag.
If you have a comic book that's worth over $50, $100, you might want to invest in bags
of a type of plastic in which a lot of the things that would be in a plastic that would
potentially cost the comic to an entry rate in 50 or 100 years would be neutralized.
If you want to go further along, if you have comic books that are worth hundreds of dollars,
there are things in the paper, the process of making pulp paper that will eventually
cause it to rot.
You can have this deacidified, but there's no point in doing this with just every comic
book on the shelf.
Actually, if you don't have any errors and you don't plan to be donating these to a
library or something, the comic books that they're handled properly are going to outlive
you most likely.
There's no real danger involved.
They should be kept away from high humidity and excessive extremes of temperature.
They're kept in a dry and cool place and kept out of direct sunlight.
Wayne pointed out to us that there's been a big change in the comic book industry in
the past few years, one that will affect collectors.
The biggest thing that's happened in comic books recently, probably the biggest thing
that's happened since comic books began, is that the ownership of some of the characters
is now being held by the individual creators in much the same way that a publisher does
not own a novel by Isaac Asimov.
Isaac Asimov would own the copyright.
Now, comic books are coming out where the writer or the artist or both own the copyright
to the character and the publisher is publishing it for them in the same kind of relationship
that a book publisher has with a novelist.
This is a complete change in the former system of the publisher owning everything, everything
being done on a work for higher basis as though the artist was just coming in and doing the
same type of function as sweeping the floors inside the corporate offices.
This is going to be a change, it's going to become more and more evident in the next
few years and it's going to create a lot of more excitement within the comic book field.
We'll talk more about comics with Bob Wayne on our next show.
This has been the Science Fiction Radio Show, a production of the Permian Basin Science
Fiction Association produced in conjunction with Odessa College in Odessa, Texas.
Thank you.
Coming up next is the Science Fiction Radio Show, so stay with us.
This is the Science Fiction Radio Show, a commentary on science fiction and fantasy.
And here are your hosts.
This is Bill Vernon and Daryl Lane.
We're talking with Bob Wayne, comic book collector and owner of the Fantastic World's Bookstore
in Fort Worth, Texas.
Comic book collecting has become a rage recently.
The prices of some collectible comics have risen almost 1000% in just a few years.
On our last show, Bob Wayne explained some things about comic book collecting and advised
the unwary newcomer to be extremely cautious when entering the field.
He also mentioned a big change that's taken place recently in the publishing of comic books.
The one who creates and draws a strip has complete rights over his work, just like the author of a novel.
This means a comic book artist could change publishing companies and move to where he can get the best contract.
We asked Wayne what this change would mean to collectors and he gave us an interesting answer.
I have to go back a little bit.
The other thing that has changed the comic industry is the change in distribution where, at one time,
all the comic books were pretty much available at 7-Eleven's and drug stores.
And at 7-Eleven bought them from a distributor, the same people used to that handle TV guide and time magazine and such things.
And they got a bundle of comic books in and what they didn't sell, they sent back for credit.
And this meant that the publishers had to print just like on anything else.
They had to print, you know, let's say 500,000 and they sold 200,000 and 300,000 got thrown away.
With the rise of specialty shops that sell comic books and science fiction books, those shops order their comics in a different fashion.
They order them non-returnable. They get a better discount, but they have to keep everything they order.
And it's now to the point where a lot of comic titles are being published only in the non-returnable format.
So if a person is only buying their comic books at a 7-Eleven or in a small town that doesn't have a specialty store,
there are a number of titles they would never have seen.
In fact, there are titles that are being published only for specialty store distribution that are selling better than some of the comic books that have distribution in both forms.
Examples of this would be Camelot 3000 from DC Comics, which takes the King Arthur saga, brings it back to life, but in the year 3000.
Star Slayer from Pacific Comics just moving to another company called First Comics, which takes a man from out of the past and springs him into the future,
where he goes around and finds alien menaces and zooms from galaxy to galaxy.
These titles are only published in specialty stores.
And the thing with the book like Star Slayer, which is written and drawn by Mike Grell, who used to work for DC Comics doing The Warlord,
is that Mike Grell owns the copyright to Star Slayer.
And the fact that Mike Grell owns the copyright means that when his contract with the publisher Pacific Comics expired with issue number 6,
he was able to find a better deal and make more money from himself and take it to First Comics, a new publishing company out of Chicago,
for starting with issue number 7.
Wayne says this change, which allows a comic book character to switch publishing companies, is a very recent one,
and he likens it to the situation that exists in book publishing.
Some of the ramifications of this new situation should be obvious to collectors.
One difference may well be that a collector devoted to a particular character or artist will have to follow him through a number of publishing companies.
Perhaps a collector will be required to buy more issues too in order to acquire a complete set of something.
Also, it should be more difficult to locate and catalog characters and artists, since they will probably be spread out over more companies.
But for dedicated comic book collectors, the new situation may be a beneficial one after all.
Sure, with more competition, there will likely be more comics and more artists, and therefore more material for collectors to work with.
This has been the Science Fiction Radio Show, a production of the Permian Basin Science Fiction Association,
produced in conjunction with Odessa College in Odessa, Texas.
Coming up next is the Science Fiction Radio Show, so stay with us.
This is the Science Fiction Radio Show, a commentary on science fiction and fantasy.
And here are your hosts.
This is Darrell Lane and David Carson.
Poetry and science fiction, two unlikely candidates for a merger, but they go together very well.
As practitioners of the art and members of the Science Fiction Poetry Association will tell you.
The Science Fiction Radio Show spoke with some people in the Science Fiction Poetry Association about what exactly Science Fiction Poetry is.
Gene Van Troyer, Science Fiction Author and Editor of a mainstream literary magazine, responds.
Well, it's been around for quite a while.
It's only been really in recent years that the term Science Fiction Poetry came into usage.
I think about 1974 was when the term was first used and it was coined by, well, it wasn't coined by anybody,
but it was just used as a label by Peter Dillingham, who was an early prosodist and theorist of Science Fiction Poetry.
And Stephen Gregg, who edited Eternity Science Fiction, which was the first Science Fiction magazine to really incorporate poetry as an integral part of its format.
What is Science Fiction Poetry?
Well, I really can't say what Science Fiction Poetry is in terms of a definition because no one has ever defined science fiction or poetry.
So Science Fiction Poetry has no real definition.
But I generally tend to class Science Fiction Poetry as something containing an element which is usually associated with Science Fiction.
In other words, a speculative element of outer space or of biology or of time or whatnot.
So that's my loose definition.
It's important to realize that what we now are calling Science Fiction Poetry has been written in the so-called mainstream for a long time.
William Blake is a really primary example of someone who wrote mystical poetry, but in order to do it, he created alternate worlds
and an ability to travel between this world or the world of London that he knew and his imaginary England, which he called Albion.
Well, that's fantasy. That's Science Fiction. That's alternate world imagination.
In more modern times, there's W. H. Auden, who has written a number of poems which would be scientifically oriented as well as Science Fiction Poetry
because they speculate about eventual results of scientific discoveries.
One of the most striking examples of what I would call Science Fiction Poetry is something that was done by Richard Wilbur, a well-established mainstream poet.
This poem is called The Mind Reader. This is a poem about a person who actually reads minds and he makes his living by reading minds.
Now, I don't think Richard Wilbur would call it Science Fiction, although maybe in the back of his mind he's working with the idea that, well, this is usually a Science Fiction theme.
But it's really a very well-done poem.
The point about Science Fiction Poetry and mainstream poetry is that to be a good poem, a Science Fiction Poem must first be a good poem.
And then content-wise, it diverges from what we normally recognize or would normally class as mainstream poetry.
The Science Fiction Poetry Association was founded in 1978 by Suzette Hayden Elgin, a mainstream novelist, who saw there was no meeting point for poets in the Science Fiction field.
There are a number of well-known Science Fiction writers who are members of the Science Fiction Poetry Association. Theodore Sturgeon, Ursula Le Guin, Gregory Benford, Ed Bryant, and Gene Wolfe are a few.
We asked Bob Frazier, editor of the Science Fiction Poetry Association newsletter, to tell us what the newsletter accomplishes.
At the moment, the newsletter seems to be the focus of the organization because we don't have any great amount of business that is important to us.
We're sort of like a very small, non-profit organization, just basically people getting to know each other and setting up workshops at conventions, doing readings, teaching each other a little bit about poetry, helping each other find good markets.
We'll talk more about poetry and science fiction on our next show.
This has been the Science Fiction Radio Show, a production of the Permian Basin Science Fiction Association, produced in conjunction with Odessa College in Odessa, Texas.
The show is a production of the Science Fiction Poetry Association, produced by Odessa College in Odessa, Texas.
Coming up next is the Science Fiction Radio Show, so stay with us.
This is the Science Fiction Radio Show, a commentary on science fiction and fantasy.
And here are your hosts.
This is David Carson and Daryl Lane.
We are speaking with some of the members of the Science Fiction Poetry Association, practicing poets and science fiction authors who feel that poetry and science fiction go well together.
We asked Bob Frazier, editor of the Science Fiction Poetry Association newsletter, Starline, if most of the group's members are science fiction fans.
It seems to work out that way, but percentage-wise it's probably, well, 75%, I would say, but I should think it should be 90% in one sense, and I feel it shows that we do have at least 25% membership of people who are just interested in poetry altogether, which is healthy.
I mean, we're not trying to be separate from the mainstream of literary mainstream with poetry, that's for sure.
What's the difference between regular poetry and science fiction poetry?
Well, there's several arguments about that. I think my basic viewpoint is that if it's science fiction or fantasy poetry, if it's published within that genre, and because a lot of the poetry really doesn't necessarily have to have unicorns or spaceships in it, a lot of it can be about very peripheral things.
I'd call them speculative things.
We asked Frazier for an example of something speculative.
Well, have you ever picked up a telephone and heard someone talking on the line somewhere far in the distance? It's another conversation between two other people.
Well, say you wrote a poem about that in the context of like there were telephone ghosts that kind of live in the telephone line, okay?
That would be a mainstream poem, or it could be a science fiction poem, because it deals sort of in that the same realm that imagination, that fantastic imagination is in.
We asked Gene Van Troyer, science fiction poet and author, if there was anything in style or technique that distinguished regular poetry from science fiction poetry.
Any style can be used. You can use it in very rigidly metered and rhymed poetic forms, which we usually call traditional poetic forms, sestinas, sonnets, villainils, and so forth.
Or it can use the free verse or modern poetic techniques that you would see, say, William Carlos Williams using or Charles Olson using.
We asked Bob Frazier to give us some titles of books and magazines that contain science fiction poetry.
I suggest a book called Holding Your Aid Hands. It's been reprinted as a paperback by Doubleday last year.
Originally it was published in 1969. The editor is Edward Lucy Smith, and it's a collection of science fiction poetry.
An international collection, actually, although not widely international as British and I think some Australian authors and American authors in it.
There's an anthology of poetry coming out from a man here in Denver, Steve Razznick Tim, and it's an offshoot of a magazine he's been editing of speculative poetry for three or four years.
It's called The Umbrellan Anthology, and it will use poetry out of what I see as the history of science fiction poetry.
There's also coming up, an anthology in a couple of years by Bruce McAlister and Dick Allen, who are both writers of science fiction poetry and both people who work in academic jobs in the United States,
which is going to attempt to do the same thing, create a comprehensive anthology of some sort.
And there is Starline, which is our newsletter, which publishes original poetry.
Markets, we have a workshop in there. We have news related to science fiction and poetry.
We have letter columns and everything that basically ties our organization together.
We'll conclude our discussion of science fiction and poetry on our next show.
This has been the Science Fiction Radio Show, a production of the Permian Basin Science Fiction Association, produced in conjunction with Odessa College in Odessa, Texas.
Coming up next is the Science Fiction Radio Show, so stay with us.
This is the Science Fiction Radio Show, a commentary on science fiction and fantasy.
And here are your hosts.
This is Derek from The Crescent of Science Fiction Radio Show.
This will be our final show on science fiction and poetry and on the Science Fiction Poetry Association.
They publish a newsletter, meet occasionally at science fiction conventions, read each other's poems, and help each other find markets for their work.
Yes, today science has found some things about the universe, especially let's use physics as an example, or found some things because science has become so specialized.
And that any scientist today is almost a specialist in his field.
We're discovering the real depths of a lot of science, including psychology, but let's pick physics, okay.
They've come up against things like black holes, singularities, monopoles, and these are things which cannot be systematically and rationally explained.
And you will find in the scientific texts that are discussing these possibilities, these kind of rips in Einsteinian space-time continuum, or however you want to look at them, they're anomalies.
The science books are using, like Carl Sagan will use a poem, for example, to help explain, to help visualize what it could possibly be or how it exists.
And because poetry can in a small space deal with something which can be abstract, it doesn't always have to be abstract and doesn't have to be unreadable and doesn't have to be boring,
but because it can deal with some things that are abstract in a small amount of space.
Poetry can be, or poetic talk, even if it's in a prose sense or even in a speech, can deal with abstract things nicely.
Gene Van Troyer, author and poet in the science fiction field, sees science fiction poetry as a significant recombining of two things that should go together.
I think one thing that's important to distinguish also is that science fiction poetry itself, I think, represents a refusion of science and poetry.
Up until the last decade, as a matter of fact, it was very vogue-ish, very fattish for poets and poetry-type people to view poetry and art and science as mutually exclusive.
And this is a totally artificial separation because poetic expression comes from the same wellsprings that the ordering process we see in science comes from.
It's the need to put order on the universe.
Well, in the Renaissance, you didn't see this really drastic split between science and art.
They were viewed as being the same thing.
But I mentioned William Blake earlier, and it seems to me that around the time of William Blake, disillusionment with the industrial revolution in science was already setting in,
and William Blake is rabidly anti-science.
Personally, I feel that he was mistaken in this particular aspect, but he looked around the world that he saw and things were terrible.
People were enslaved almost by the industrial system, and he was just rabidly opposed to it because it oppressed the spirit, it oppressed the soul.
Well, now, I think this is a forerunner of the split that gradually grew from about the latter part of the 18th century up until the present time in the 20th century.
But it's gradually coming back together, and you see a lot more science showing up in poetry and poets feeling much more confident about expressing things out of science in their poetry,
as well as scientists falling back on poetry to explicate things.
This has been the Science Fiction Radio Show, a production of the Permian Basin Science Fiction Association, produced in conjunction with Odessa College in Odessa, Texas.
Thank you.